So, it has come to this, the dreaded disaster happened. Maybe your favorite author decided to up and quit, or started a rewrite, or any number of other scenarios. What matters though, is that I have a solution. Up front, I want to say that it has a few non-trivial requirements: a good internet connection(both bandwidth and speed), at minimum 10 gb of disk space, and at least 8gb of ram. This will absolutely chew up data. 
BLUF: This method will work for both fanfic.net and AO3, but should only be attempted after checking The Wayback Machine and emailing the author,if you're not in a hurry. It's relatively easy, but involves handling large(6GB) files and installing one program(DB browser for SQLite).

Background
Throughout this, I will refer to "The archive", "AO3", and various other names. These refer to Archive of our Own. If I say "Internet Archive" or "IA" or "The Wayback Machine", I refer to Archive.org. If you came here for FF.net, the method is still the same.
The Archive works by creating an SQL database of everything associated with a work, be it name, author,word count, etc. For those not in the know, SQL is a programming language used for database management(duh!) among other things. What most people think of as the archive is actually a complex program(open source) written in Rust and a few other languages that is responsible for searching the massive database. Now some enterprising person took it upon themselves to upload these database files to IA. I do not know if someone at AO3 did it, or an enterprising programmer managed to scrape the Archive without getting blacklisted for a DDos attack. If anyone knows more, please comment.

The Method
First, go to "https://sqlite.org/download.html" and download SQLite. It's available for Android, Linux, Windows, and MacOS. You could also compile from source if none of these work.
Second, go to "https://archive.org/download/AO3_story_dump_continuing" or here "https://archive.org/details/fanfictiondotnet_repack" for ff.net and download ONLY the file labelled "ao3-metadata_full.sqlite", it should be about 6GB. If you're feeling like an absolute madlad or are a datahoarder, download everything. It's constantly updated, so have fun with that, and opening one of the directories can crash a bad computer, and it's a nice manageable 229 GB of plaintext files. I'd recommend using the IA command line utility if you have a bad internet connection.
Third, open up the file you just downloaded using "DB browser for SQlite". It WILL take several minutes to load. As far as I can tell, it's loading the entire file to ram.
Fourth, click on the tab at the top of the page labelled "Browse Data". If nothing is showing up AND in the bottom left it reads "determining row count", wait longer. When it has finished loading search for the fic that you are looking for, either by author, or name, or tags...etc. Say I was looking for all the stories by esama. I would go under "Author", where the text boxt says "Filter" and enter "esama". This search is not nearly robus as the Archive's so tags with the same meaning WILL NOT return each other. Only exact matches. After entering your query, wait a moment, the software has to search almost five million rows of data. If a common string is used, unwanted results may be returned. Using the above example, returns entries by the author cadesame, which we don't want. To solve this, we need to use an exact filter, which is done by searching the string "=esama". This returns many many results, as esama is a really prolific author, but say I see the following row and want to find that fic.
Example Row
-----------------------
ao3-2-5/Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling_ Stargate Atlantis - esama - The Boy Who Was.txt	The Boy Who Was	esama	Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling, Stargate Atlantis	Character Bashing, Crossover, Gen, Rebirth	English	Completed	2014-01-03	2014-01-03	2018-01-07 07:45:34	Teen And Up Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	1	2,746	archiveofourown.org	https://archiveofourown.org/works/1117323	https://archiveofourown.org/users/esama/pseuds/esama	<blockquote class="userstuff">	2746	1
-----------------------
Most of these columns should look familiar to us, so I wont explain them unless someone asks. The important item is the "Path" item which has the value "ao3-2-5/Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling_ Stargate Atlantis - esama - The Boy Who Was.txt". This tells us that the name of the text file we are looking for is "Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling_ Stargate Atlantis - esama - The Boy Who Was.txt" and it is located in the folder ao3-2-5.
Fifth, we are in the home stretch now. You must go to IA and download the entire folder that we found(ex. ao3-2-5). It is about 20 GB. Unless you have a really good computer do not attempt to open this directory in a file browser, it's all text files. Instead, navigate to the parent directory and paste the entire file name into the search bar and, you guessed it, wait some more. If everything has been done right, exactly one text file should come up. I'd recommend converting this file to a pdf(or your preffered format) ASAP because some fics are really long and most text editors handle memory poorly. Fortunately, this fic is only 116 lines.
Sixth, that's it, we're done. I did this process for AO3 using Ubuntu 20.04 on an Asus Zenbook.I do not regularly us FF.net anymore, but the process should be the same.

A note
I just wanted to say that since the Archive is open source, you could download and compile a copy, replace its' empty database with these files, and have a completely offline copy of the archive. Just a thought.

This file can be permanently found at "https://github.com/earthsunandcode/MISCFileDump/AO3DumpSearch"
